
=head1 NAME

Text::Hatena - The new "Text-to-HTML converter" with Hatena syntax.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Text::Hatena;

  my $parser = Text::Hatena->new;
  my $html = $parser->parse($string);

  # Text::Hatena 0.16 style
  my $html = $parser->html;

  # Text::Hatena 0.20 style
  my $html = Text::Hatena->parse($string);

  # Text::Xatena style
  my $html = $parser->format($string);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Text::Hatena is a text-to-html converter.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item $parser = Text::Hatena->new ($name => $value, ...)

Create a parser.  It accepts following options are zero or more
key/value pair arguments:

=over 4

=item amazonid => $string

Amazon associate ID (AssociateTag) of the Amazon's affiliate program,
used when a link to Amazon Web site is generated.  Defaulted to
C<hatena-22>.

=item expand_map => $boolean

Whether the C<map:> syntax should be expanded to an embedded Hatena
Map or not.  Defaulted to true.

=item expand_movie => $boolean

Whether the C<:movie> syntax should be expanded to a movie player or
not.  Defaulted to true.

=item keyword_url_prefix => $string

The prefix of URLs used for the links of the C<[[]]> syntax.  Default
is C<https://d.hatena.ne.jp/keyword/>.

=item ua => $ua

A L<LWP::UserAgent> object, used for any network access happened as
part of text to HTML convertion.  If no C<ua> option is specified, a
new L<LWP::UserAgent> object is created (apparently this requires the
L<LWP::UserAgent> module available).  If an C<undef> value is
explicitly specified, network access is disabled.

If anything other than the C<undef> value is specified to this option,
oEmbed support is enabled.  In this case modules L<Any::Moose> and
L<Web::oEmbed> are required.

=item urlbase => $string

The prefix of URLs used for the links of the C<id:> syntax.  Default
is C<https://profile.hatena.ne.jp/> or C<https://d.hatena.ne.jp/>,
depending on the parameters specified.

=item use_hatena_bookmark_detail => $boolean

Whether "detail" widget of Hatena Bookmark should be used for
C<:detail> syntax or not.

=item use_google_chart => $boolean

Whether images from Google Chart tools are used to represent C<tex:>
and C<:barcode> syntax texts or not.

=item use_vim => $boolean

Whether syntax highlighting using L<Text::VimColor> module is enabled
or not.  Note that that module requires L<Text::VimColor>, C<vim>, and
syntax definition files.  Defaulted to true.

=back

The method returns the created parser object.

=item $arrayref = $parser->stash->{footnotes}

An array reference of footnotes, if any.  An item is a hash reference
representing a footnote, with following key/value pairs:

=over 4

=item number => $string

The reference number of the footnote.

=item title => $string

The "title" of the footnote.

=item note => $string

The main text of the footnote.

=back

=back

=head1 SYNTAX COMPATIBILITY

This module is expected to be compatible with Hatena Blog, although
some features of the Hatena syntax as implemented by Hatena Blog are
not supported (yet).

Generating exactly same HTML output as Hatena Blog or any other Hatena
product is I<not> a goal of the module, however.

Following custom markups are used:

=over 4

=item <pre data-lang>

The C<data-lang> attribute value is the language name of the super-pre
syntax, if specified (e.g. C<perl> for C<< >|perl| >>).

=item <a data-hatena-embed data-hatena-lang data-hatena-width data-hatena-height>

If the C<data-hatena-oembed> attribute is specified, the link is
expected to be expanded to an "embeded" representation (e.g. embedded
player widget).  If the value is C<movie>, a movie player is expected.
Otherwise, if the value is C<barcode>, the QR code of the link URL is
expected.  Otherwise, if the value is C<httpdetail>, the "detail"
widget of Hatena Bookmark for the link URL is expected.  Otherwise, if
the value is C<title>, the title of the linked page is expected.
Otherwise, no specific media is expected.

The C<data-hatena-lang> attribute value is the specification of the
langauge, if any.

The C<data-hatena-width> attribute value is the expected rendered
width, if any.

The C<data-hatena-height> attribute value is the expected rendered
height, if any.

=item <a data-hatena-keyword>

The attribute value is the keyword the element is linked to.

=item <h1 data-hatena-timestamp>

The attribute value is the timestamp of the heading as a Unix time
integer, as specified by the timed heading syntax
<https://hatenadiary.g.hatena.ne.jp/keyword/%E6%99%82%E5%88%BB%E4%BB%98%E3%81%8D%E3%81%AE%E8%A6%8B%E5%87%BA%E3%81%97%E3%82%92%E3%81%A4%E3%81%91%E3%82%8B%EF%BC%88%E6%99%82%E5%88%BB%E4%BB%98%E3%81%8D%E8%A6%8B%E5%87%BA%E3%81%97%E8%A8%98%E6%B3%95%EF%BC%89>.

=item <hatena-category name>

The C<name> attribute value is the category to which the section
belongs, as specified by the category syntax
<https://hatenadiary.g.hatena.ne.jp/keyword/%E6%97%A5%E8%A8%98%E3%82%92%E3%82%AB%E3%83%86%E3%82%B4%E3%83%AA%E3%83%BC%E5%88%86%E3%81%91%E3%81%97%E3%81%A6%E6%95%B4%E7%90%86%E3%81%99%E3%82%8B%EF%BC%88%E3%82%AB%E3%83%86%E3%82%B4%E3%83%AA%E3%83%BC%E8%A8%98%E6%B3%95%EF%BC%89>.
This element is used as children of the heading of the section.

=item <hatena-contents>

Represents an insertion point of the table of contents of the
document, as specified by the contents syntax
<http://g.hatena.ne.jp/help#contentssyntax>.

=item <hatena-map lat lon width height type t link target>

Represents a C<map:> syntax text, if C<expand_map> option is false.

The C<lat> attribute value is the latitude.  The C<lon> attribute
value is the longitude.

The C<width> attribute value represents the rendered width.  The
C<height> attribute value represents the rendered height.

The C<type> attribute value represents the type of the map.  If
specified, the value is one of C<map>, C<satellite>, and C<hybrid>.

The C<link> attribute is specified if a map page with the specified
latitude and longitude selected should be linked rather than embedded.
The C<target> attribute specifies the target window (which has the
same semantics with the C<target> attribute of an HTML C<target>
attribute).

The C<t> attribute value represents the C<t> parameter, if specified.

=item <hatena-tex>

The content is the TeX text of a C<tex:> syntax, if
C<use_google_chart> option is false.

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCY

The module requires Perl 5.10 or later.

It also requires some Perl modules.  Additionally, as mentioned in
earlier section of this documentation, some features require more
modules.  See C<cpanfile> for the complete list of required modules.

=head1 AUTHORS

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This is a fork of the original C<Text::Hatena> module, 8 Oct 2013
<https://github.com/onishi/Text-Hatena>, which is the latest public
release of the module.  The original authors of the module are:

L<cho45 E<lt>cho45@lowreal.netE<gt>>

L<onishi E<lt>yasuhiro.onishi@gmail.comE<gt>>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Text::Xatena>

L<https://hatenadiary.g.hatena.ne.jp/keyword/%E3%81%AF%E3%81%A6%E3%81%AA%E8%A8%98%E6%B3%95%E4%B8%80%E8%A6%A7>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2013 by L<cho45 <cho45@lowreal.net>>.

Copyright 2017 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
